HTTPTunnel-ing Through Deep Packet
Inspection
So far, we have traversed firewalls based
on port filters and stateful inspection.
However, certain deep packet content
inspection devices
may only allow specific protocols.
If, for example, the SSH protocol is not
allowed,
all the tunnels that relied on this
protocol would fail.
To demonstrate this, we will consider a
new scenario.
Similar to our other Linux scenarios,
let’s assume we have compromised a server
through a vulnerability,
elevated our privileges to root,
and have gained access to the passwords
for both the root
and student users on the machine.
Even though our compromised Linux server
does not actually have deep packet
inspection implemented, for the purposes
of this section
we will assume that a deep packet content
inspection feature
has been implemented that only allows the
HTTP protocol.
Because of this an SSH-based tunnel will
not work here.
In addition, the firewall in this scenario
only allows ports 80, 443, and 1234
inbound and outbound.
Port 80 and 443 are allowed because this
machine is a web server,
but 1234 was obviously an oversight
since it does not currently map to any
listening port on the internal network.
In order to simulate this scenario,
our dedicated Debian box will stand in as
the compromised Linux server.
We will run the http tunneling script on
our dedicated Linux client
so it allows inbound traffic on ports, 80,
443 and 1234.
In this case, our goal is to initiate a
remote desktop connection
from our Kali Linux machine to the Windows
Server 2016 machine
through the compromised Linux server
using only the HTTP protocol.
We will rely on HTTPTunnel to encapsulate
our traffic within HTTP requests
thereby creating an “HTTP tunnel”.
HTTPTunnel uses a client/server model
and we’ll need to first install the tool
and then run both a client and a server.
We can install HTTPtunnel from the Kali
Linux repositories using apt.
Before diving in, let’s describe the
traffic flow we are trying to achieve.
First, remember that we have a shell on
the internal Linux server.
This shell is HTTP-based, which is the
only protocol allowed through the firewall
and we are connected to it via port 443.
We will create a local port forward on
this machine bound to port 8888,
which will forward all connections to the
Windows Server on port 3389.
Note that this port forward is not
affected by the HTTP protocol restriction
because both machines are on the same
internal network
and the traffic does not traverse the
deep packet inspection device.
However, the protocol restriction will
create a problem for us when we attempt
to connect a tunnel from the Linux server
to our Kali Linux machine.
This is where our SSH-based tunnel
will be blocked because of the disallowed
protocol.
To solve this, we will create an
HTTP-based tunnel
between the machines using HTTPTunnel.
Port forwarding with encapsulation can be
complicated
because we have to consider firewall
rules, protocol limitations,
and both inbound and outbound ports.
Let’s review what’s going on.
The “input” of this HTTP tunnel will be
on port 8080 of our Kali Linux machine
and the tunnel will “output” to the
compromised Linux machine
on listening port 1234.
Here the HTTP requests will be decapsulated,
and the traffic will be handed off to the
listening port 8888
on the compromised Linux server, which,
thanks to our SSH-based local forward,
is redirected to our Windows target’s
Remote Desktop port.
When this is set up, we will initiate a
Remote Desktop session to our Kali Linux
machine’s localhost port 8080.
The request will be HTTP-encapsulated
and sent across the HTTPTunnel as HTTP
traffic
to port 1234 on the Linux server, where
it will decapsulated and finally
sent to our Windows Target’s Remote
desktop port
via the SSH local port forward tunnel.
To begin building our tunnel,
we first need to obtain a shell on the
Linux client.
For the purposes of this demonstation,
we will use a CMS Made Simple exploit
that has been modified
to contain a reverse shell payload.
We also need to upgrade our
non-interactive shell using python,
so we can create a local port forward
between our compromised Linux machine
and the Windows remote desktop target
using SSH.
Remember, protocol does not matter here
because this traffic is unaffected
by deep packet inspection on the internal
network.
To do this, we will create a local
forward from this machine and will log in
as the student user using the password we
found earlier.
We will forward all requests on port 8888,
to the Windows Server’s remote
desktop port.
Using ss, we confirm that port 8888 is
listening.
Next, we must create an HTTPTunnel out to
our Kali Linux machine
in order to slip our traffic past the
HTTP-only protocol restriction.
HTTPTunnel uses both a client named htc,
and a server named hts.
We will set up the server,
which will listen on localhost port 1234,
and will decapsulate the traffic from the
incoming HTTP stream
and redirect it to localhost port 8888
which, thanks to the previous command,
is redirected to the Windows Target’s
remote desktop port.
The ps and ss commands show that the
HTTPTunnel server is up and running.
Next, we need an HTTPTunnel client that
will take our remote desktop traffic
and encapsulate it into an HTTP stream
and send it to the listening HTTPTunnel
server.
The htc command will listen on localhost
port 8080,
HTTP-encapsulate the traffic and forward
it across the firewall,
to our listening HTTPTunnel server on
port 1234.
Again, the ps and ss commands show that
the HTTPTunnel client is up and running.
Now, all traffic sent to port 8080 on our
Kali Linux machine will be redirected
into our HTTPTunnel, where it is
HTTP-encapsulated,
sent across the firewall to the
compromised Linux server and decapsulated,
and redirected again to the Windows
Server’s remote desktop service.
We can test that this is working by
sniffing the traffic
to ensure it is HTTP-encapsulated.
Next, we’ll lauch a remote desktop client
against our Kali Linux machine’s
listening port 8080.
Excellent. The remote desktop connection
was successful.
Inspecting the traffic, we can confirm
that it is HTTP-encapsulated
and would have successfully bypassed the
protocol restrictions.